IV. From my discourse with Mr. Lloyd, and from
the above-reported conference between Bessie and Abbott, I gathered enough hope to suffice
as a motive for wishing to get well. A change seemed near. I desired and waited it in silence.
It tarried, however. Days and weeks passed. I had regained my normal state of health,
but no new illusion was made to the subject over which I brooded. Mrs. Reed surveyed me
at times with a severe eye, but seldom addressed me. Since my illness she had drawn a more
marked line of separation than ever between me and her own children, pointing me a small
closet to sleep in by myself, condemning me to take my meals alone and pass all my time in the
nursery while my cousins were constantly in the drawing-room. Not a hint, however, did she drop
about sending me to school. Still I felt an instinctive certainty that she would not long
endure me under the same roof with her, for her glance, now more than ever, when turned on me,
expressed an insuperable and rooted aversion. Eliza and Georgiana, evidently acting according
to others, spoke to me as little as possible. John thrust his tongue in his cheek whenever
he saw me, and once attempted chastisement, but as I instantly turned against him, roused by the
same sentiment of deep ire and desperate revolt which had stirred my corruption before, he thought
it better to desist, and ran from me, tittering execrations, and bowing, I had burst his nose.
I had indeed levelled at that prominent feature as hard a blow as my knuckles could inflict,
and when I saw that either that or my look daunted him, I had the greatest inclination
to follow up my advantage to purpose, but he was already with his mamma. I heard him in a
blubbering tone commence the tale of how that nasty Jane Eyre had flown at him like a mad cat.
He was stopped rather harshly. Don't talk to me about her, John. I told you not to go near her.
She is not worthy of notice. I do not choose that either you or your sisters should associate with
her. Here, leaning over the banister, I cried out suddenly, and without at all deliberating
on my words, they are not fit to associate with me. Mrs. Reed was a rather stout woman,
but on hearing this strange and audacious declaration, she ran nimbly up the stair,
swept me like a whirlwind into the nursery, and crushing me down on the edge of my crib,
dared me in an emphatic voice to rise from that place or utter one syllable during the
remainder of the day. What would Uncle Reed say to you if he were alive was my scarcely voluntary
demand. I say scarcely voluntary, for it seemed as if my tongue pronounced words without my will
consenting to their utterance. Something spoke out of me over which I had no control.
What? said Mrs. Reed under her breath. Her usually cold, composed grey eye became troubled with a
hand from my arm, and gazed at me as if she really did not know whether I were child or fiend.
I was now in for it. My Uncle Reed is in heaven, and can see all you do and think, and so can
Papa and Mama. They know how you shut me up all day long, and how you wish me dead.
Mrs. Reed soon rallied her spirits. She shook me most soundly. She boxed both my ears,
and left me without a word. Bessie supplied the hiatus by a homily of an hour's length
in which she proved beyond a doubt that I was the most wicked and abandoned child ever reared under
a roof. I half believed her, for I felt indeed only bad feelings surging in my breast.
November, December, and half of January passed away. Christmas and the New Year had been
celebrating it at Gateshead with the usual festive cheer. Presents had been interchanged,
dinners and evening parties given. From every enjoyment I was, of course, excluded.
By a share of the gate, he consisted in witnessing the daily apparelling of Eliza and Georgiana,
and seeing them descend to the drawing-room dressed out in the thin muslin frocks and scarlet
sashes, with hair elaborately ring-lettered, and afterwards enlisting to the sound of the piano,
or the harp played below, to the passing to and fro of the butler and footman,
to the jingling of larsen china as refreshments were handed, to the broken hum of conversation
as the drawing-room door opened and closed. When tired of this occupation, I would retire
from the stair-head to the solitary and silent nursery. There, though somewhat sad, I was not
miserable. To speak truth, I had not the least wish to go into company, for in company I was
very rarely noticed, and if Bessie had been but kind and companionable, I should have deemed it
a treat to spend the evenings quietly with her instead of passing them under the formidable eye
of Mrs. Reid in a room full of ladies and gentlemen. But Bessie, as soon as she had dressed
her young ladies, used to take herself off to the lively regions of the kitchen and
housekeeper's room, generally bearing the candle along with her. I then sat with my doll on my knee
till the fire got low, glancing around occasionally to make sure that nothing worse than myself haunted
the shadowy room, and when the embers sank to a dull red, I undressed hastily, tugging at knots
and strings as I best might, and sought shelter from cold and darkness in my crib. To this crib,
I always took my doll. Human beings must love something, and in the dearth of worthier objects
of affection, I contrived to find a pleasure in loving and cherishing a faded graven image,
shabby as a miniature scarecrow. It puzzles me now to remember with what absurd sincerity I
doted on this little toy, half fancying it alive and capable of sensation. I could not sleep unless
it was folded in my nightgown, and when it lay there safe and warm, I was comparatively happy,
believing it to be happy likewise. Long did the hours seem while I waited the departure of the
company, and listened for the sound of Bessie's step on the stairs. Sometimes she would come up
in the interval to seek her thimble or her scissors, or perhaps to bring me something by way of supper,
a bun or a cheesecake. Then she would sit on the bed while I ate it, and when I had finished,
she would tuck the clothes round me, and twice she kissed me and said good night, Miss Jane.
When thus gentle, Bessie seemed to me the best, prettiest, kindest being in the world,
and I wished most intensely that she would always be so pleasant and amiable, and never push me
about or scold or task me unreasonably, as she was too often wont to do. Bessie Lee must, I think,
have been a girl of great natural capacity, for she was smart in all she did, and had a remarkable
knack of narrative, so at least I judge from the impression made on me by her nursery tales.
She was pretty, too, if my recollections of her face and person are correct.
I remember her as a slim young woman, with black hair, dark eyes, very nice features,
and good clear complexion. But she had a capricious and hasty temper,
and indifferent ideas of principle or justice. Still, such as she was,
I preferred her to anyone else at Gateshead Hall.
It was the 15th of January, about nine o'clock in the morning. Bessie was gone down to breakfast.
My cousins had not yet been summoned to their mamma. Eliza was putting on her bonnet and warm
garden coat to go and feed her poultry, an occupation of which she was fond, and not less
of selling the eggs to the housekeeper and hoarding up the money she thus obtained.
She had a turn for traffic and a marked propensity for saving, shown not only in the
vending of eggs and chickens, but also in driving hard bargains with the gardener about flower roots,
seeds and slips of plants, that functionary having orders from Mrs. Reed to buy of his young lady all
the products of her parterre she wished to sell, and Eliza would have sewed the hair off her head
if she could have made a handsome profit thereby. As to her money, she first secreted it in odd
corners, wrapped in a rag or an old curl paper, but some of these hoards having been discovered
by the housemaid, Eliza, fearful of one day losing her valued treasure, consented to entrust it to
her mother at a usurious rate of interest, fifty or sixty per cent, which interest she exacted
every quarter, keeping her accounts in a little book with anxious accuracy.
Georgiana sat on a high stool, dressing her hair at the glass, and into weaving her curls
with artificial flowers and faded feathers, of which she had found a store in a drawer in the
attic. I was making my bed, having received strict orders from Bessie to get it arranged
before she returned, for Bessie now frequently employed me as a sort of under-nursery maid
to tidy the room, dust the chairs, etc. Having spread the quilt and folded my night-dress,
I went to the window-seat to put in order some picture books of doll's-house furniture scattered
there, and abrupt command from Georgiana to let her play things alone, for the tiny chairs and
mirrors, the fairy plates and cups were her property, stop my proceedings. And then, for
lack of other occupation, I fell to breathing on the frost-flowers with which the window was
fretted, and thus clearing a space in the glass through which I might look out on the grounds,
where all was still and petrified under the influence of a hard frost.
From this window were visible the porter's lodge and the carriage road, and just as I dissolved so
much of the silver-white foliage veiling the panes as left room to look out, I saw the gates thrown
open, and a carriage roll through. I watched it ascending the drive with indifference.
Carriages often came to Gateshead, but none ever brought visitors in whom I was interested.
It stopped in front of the house. The doorbell rang loudly. The newcomer was admitted.
All this being nothing to me, my vacant attention soon found lively retraction
in the spectacle of a little hungry robin which came and chirruped on the twigs of the leafless
cherry-tree nailed against the wall near the casement. The remnants of my breakfast of bread
and milk stood on the table, and having crumbled a morsel of roll, I was tagging at the sash to put
out the crumbs on the windowsill when Bessie came running upstairs into the nursery.
Miss Jane, take off your pinafore. What are you doing there? Have you washed your hands
and face this morning? I gave another tug before I answered, for I wanted the bird to be secure
of its bread. The sash yielded. I scattered the crumbs, some on the stone sill, some on the
cherry-tree bough. Then, closing the window, I replied, No, Bessie, I have only just finished
dusting. Troublesome, careless child, what are you doing now? You look quite red as if you had been
about some mischief. What were you opening the window for? I was spared the trouble of answering,
Bessie seemed in too great a hurry to listen to explanations. She hauled me to the washstand,
inflicted a merciless but happily brief scrub on my face and hands with soap, water and a coarse
towel, disciplined my head with a bristly brush, denuded me of my pinafore, and then,
hurrying me to the top of the stairs, bid me go down directly, as I was wanted in the breakfast
room. I would have asked who wanted me. I would have demanded if Mrs. Reed was there, but Bessie
was already gone, and had closed the nursery door upon me. I slowly descended. For nearly
three months I had never been called to Mrs. Reed's presence. Restricted so long to the nursery,
the breakfast dining and drawing-rooms were become, for me, awful regions on which it dismayed me to
intrude. I now stood in the empty hall. Before me was the breakfast-room door, and I stopped,
intimidated and trembling. What a miserable little paltrune had fear engendered of unjust
punishment made of me in those days. I feared to return to the nursery, and feared to go forward
to the parlour. Ten minutes I stood in agitated hesitation. The vehement ringing of the breakfast
room bell decided me I must enter. Who could want me? I asked inwardly, as with both hands I turned
the stiff door handle, which for a second or two resisted my efforts. What should I see besides
Aunt Reed in the apartment, a man or woman? The handle turned, the door unclosed, and passing
through and cutting low I looked up at a black pillar. Such at least appeared to me at first sight
the straight, narrow, sable-clad shape standing erect on the rug. The grim face at the top was
like a carved mask placed above the shaft by way of capital. Mrs. Reed occupied her usual seat by
the fireside. She made a signal to me to approach. I did so, and she introduced me to the stony
stranger with the words, This is the little girl respecting whom I applied to you.
He, for it was a man, turned his head slowly towards where I stood, and having examined me
with the two inquisitive-looking grey eyes which twinkled under a pair of bushy brows,
said solemnly, and in a base voice, Her size is small. What is her age? Ten years. So much
was the doubtful answer, and he prolonged his scrutiny for some minutes. Presently he addressed
Your name, little girl? Jane Eyre, sir. In uttering these words I looked up. He seemed to me a tall
gentleman, but then I was very little. His features were large, and they and all the lines of his frame
were equally harsh and prim. Well, Jane Eyre, now are you a good child? Impossible to reply to this
in the affirmative. My little world held a contrary opinion. I was silent. Mrs. Reed answered for me
by an expressive shake of the head, adding soon, Perhaps the less said on that subject,
the better, Mr. Brocklehurst. Sorry, indeed, to hear it. She and I must have some talk.
And bending from the perpendicular, he installed his person in the armchair
opposite Mrs. Reed's. Come here, he said. I stepped across the rug. He placed me
square and straight before him. What a face he had, now that it was almost on a level with mine!
What a great nose, and what a mouth, and what large, prominent teeth!
No sight so sad as that of a naughty child, he began, especially a naughty little girl.
Do you know where the wicked go after death? They go to hell, was my ready and orthodox answer.
And what is hell, can you tell me that? A pit full of fire. And should you like to fall into
that pit and to be burning there for ever? No, sir. What must you do to avoid it?
I deliberated a moment. My answer, when it did come, was objectionable.
I must keep in good health and not die. How could you keep in good health? Children younger
than you die daily. I buried a little child of five years old only a day or two since.
A good little child, whose soul is now in heaven. It is to be feared the same could not be said
of you were you to be called hence. Not being in a condition to remove his doubt,
I only cast my eyes down on the two large feet planted on the rug, and sighed,
wishing myself far enough away. I hope that sigh is from the heart,
and that you repent of ever having been the occasion of discomfort to your excellent benefactress.
Benefactress, benefactress, said I inwardly. They all call Mrs. Reid my benefactress. If so,
benefactress is a disagreeable thing. Do you say your prayers night and morning?
continued my interrogator. Yes, sir. Do you read your Bible?
Sometimes. With pleasure. Are you fond of it? I like revelations, and the Book of Daniel,
and Genesis, and Samuel, and a little bit of Exodus, and some parts of Kings and Chronicles,
and Job and Jonah. And the Psalms? I hope you like them.
No, sir. No? Oh, shocking! I have a little boy younger than you, who knows six Psalms by heart.
And when you ask him which he would rather have, a gingerbread nut to eat,
or a verse of a Psalm to learn, he says, Oh, the verse of a Psalm! Angels sing Psalms, said he.
I wish to be a little angel here below. He then gets two nuts in recompense for his infant piety.
Psalms are not interesting, I remarked. That proves you have a wicked heart,
and you must pray to God to change it, to give you a new and clean one,
to take away your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh.
I was about to propound a question, touching the manner in which that operation of changing
my heart was to be performed, when Mrs. Reid interposed, telling me to sit down.
She then proceeded to carry on the conversation herself.
Mr. Brocklehurst, I believe I intimated in the letter which I wrote to you three weeks ago
that this little girl has not quite the character and disposition I could wish.
Should you admit her into Lowood School, I should be glad if the superintendent and teachers were
requested to keep a strict eye on her, and, above all, to guard against her worst fault,
a tendency to deceit. I mention this in your hearing, Jane, that you may not attempt to
pose on Mr. Brocklehurst.
Well might I dread, well might I dislike Mrs. Reid, for it was her nature to wound me cruelly.
Never was I happy in her presence. However carefully I obeyed, however strenuously I strove
to please her, my efforts were still repulsed and repaid by such sentences as the above.
Now uttered before a stranger, the accusation cut me to the heart. I dimly perceived that she was
obliterating hope from the new place of existence which she destined me to enter.
I felt, though I could not have expressed the feeling, that she was sowing aversion
and unkindness along my future path. I saw myself transformed under Mr. Brocklehurst's
eye into an artful, noxious child, and what could I do to remedy the injury?
Nothing indeed, thought I, as I struggled to repress a sob and hastily wiped away some tears,
the impotent evidences of my anguish.
Deceit is indeed a sad fault in a child, said Mr. Brocklehurst. It is akin to falsehood,
and all liars will have their portion in the lake burning with fire and brimstone.
She shall, however, be watched, Mrs. Reid. I will speak to Miss Temple and the teachers.
I should wish her to be brought up in a manner suiting her prospects,
continued my benefactress, to be made useful, to be kept humble. As for the vacations,
she will, with your permission, spend them always at Lowood.
Your decisions are perfectly judicious, madam, returned Mr. Brocklehurst.
Humility is a Christian grace, and one peculiarly appropriate to the pupils of Lowood.
I, therefore, direct that special care shall be bestowed on its cultivation amongst them.
I have studied how best to mortify in them the worldly sentiment of pride,
and only the other day I had a pleasing proof of my success.
My second daughter, Augusta, went with her mamma to visit the school,
and on her return she exclaimed,
O dear papa, how quiet and plain all the girls at Lowood look,
with their hair combed behind their ears,
and their long pinafores, those little holland pockets outside their frocks.
They are almost like poor people's children.
And, said she, they looked at my dress and mamma's as if they had never seen a silk gown before.
This is the state of things I quite approve, returned Mrs. Reid.
Had I sought all England over,
I could scarcely have found a sister more exactly fitting a child like Jane Eyre.
Consistency, my dear Mr. Brocklehurst, I advocate consistency in all things.
Consistency, madam, is the first of Christian duties,
and it has been observed in every arrangement connected with the establishment of Lowood.
Plain fare, simple attire, unsophisticated accommodations,
hardy and active habits such as the order of the day in the house and its inhabitants.
Quite right, sir.
I may then depend upon this child being received as a pupil at Lowood,
and there being trained in conformity to her position and prospects.
Madam, you may.
She who shall be placed in that nursery of chosen plants,
and I trust she will show herself grateful for the inestimable privilege of her election.
I will send her then as soon as possible, Mr. Brocklehurst, for,
I assure you, I feel anxious to be relieved of a responsibility that was becoming too irksome.
No doubt, no doubt, madam.
And now I wish you good morning.
I shall return to Brocklehurst Hall in the course of a week or two.
My good friend the archdeacon will not permit me to leave him sooner.
I shall send Miss Temple notice that she is to expect a new girl,
so that there will be no difficulty about receiving her.
Good-bye.
Good-bye, Mr. Brocklehurst.
Remember me to Mrs. and Miss Brocklehurst,
and to Augusta and Theodore and Master Brofton Brocklehurst.
I will, madam.
Little girl, here is a book entitled The Child's Guide.
Read it with prayer, especially that part containing an account of the
awfully sudden death of Martha Gee, a naughty child addicted to falsehood and deceit.
With these words, Mr. Brocklehurst put into my hand a thin pamphlet,
sewn in a cover, and having wrung for his carriage, he departed.
Mrs. Reed and I were left alone.
Some minutes passed in silence.
She was sewing.
I was watching her.
Mrs. Reed might be at that time some six or seven and thirty.
She was a woman of robust frame, square-shouldered and strong-limbed,
not tall, and, though stout, not obese.
She had a somewhat large face, the under-jaw being much developed and very solid.
Her brow was low, her chin large and prominent, mouth and nose sufficiently regular.
Under her light eyebrows glimmered an eye devoid of roof.
Her skin was dark and opaque.
Her hair nearly flaxen.
Her constitution was sound as a bell.
Illness never came near her.
She was an exact, clever manager.
Her household and tenentry were thoroughly under her control.
Her children only at times defied her authority and laughed it to scorn.
She dressed well, and had presents and port calculated to set off handsome attire.
Sitting on a low stool a few yards from her armchair, I examined her figure.
I perused her features.
In my hand I held the tract containing the sudden death of the liar,
to which narrative my attention had been pointed as to an appropriate warning.
What had just passed, what Mrs. Reid had said concerning me to Mr. Brocklehurst,
the whole tenor of their conversation was recent, raw and stinging in my mind.
I had felt every word as acutely as I had heard it plainly,
and a passion of resentment fermented now within me.
Mrs. Reid looked up from her work, her eye settled on mine,
her fingers at the same time suspended their nimble movements.
Go out of the room, return to the nursery was her mandate.
My look or something else must have struck her as offensive,
for she spoke with extreme though suppressed irritation.
I got up, I went to the door, I came back again,
I walked to the window, across the room, and then close up to her.
Speak I must, I had been trodden on severely, and must turn, but how?
What strength had I to dart retaliation at my antagonist?
I gathered my energies and launched them in this blunt sentence.
I am not deceitful. If I were, I should say I loved you.
But I declare I do not love you.
I dislike you the worst of anybody in the world except John Reid.
And this book about the liar you may give to your girl Georgiana,
for it is she who tells lies and not I.
Mrs. Reid's hands still lay on her work inactive,
her eye of ice continued to dwell freezingly on mine.
What more have you to say? she asked,
rather in the tone in which a person might address an opponent of adult age,
than such as is you ordinarily used to a child.
That eye of hers, that voice, stirred every antipathy I had,
shaking from head to foot, thrilled with ungovernable excitement,
I continued, I am glad you are no relation of mine.
I will never call you aunt again as long as I live.
I will never come to see you when I am grown up.
And if anyone asks me how I liked you and how you treated me,
I will say the very thought of you makes me sick,
and that you treated me with miserable cruelty.
How dare you affirm that, Jane Eyre?
How dare I, Mrs. Reid? How dare I? Because it is the truth.
You think I have no feelings, and that I can do without one bit of love or kindness.
But I cannot live so, and you have no pity.
I shall remember how you thrust me back, roughly and violently thrust me back into the red room,
and locked me up there to my dying day, though I was in agony,
though I cried out while suffocating with distress, have mercy, have mercy, aunt Reid.
And that punishment you made me suffer because your wicked boy
struck me, knocked me down for nothing.
I will tell anybody who asks me questions this exact tale.
People think you are a good woman, but you are bad, hard-hearted.
You are deceitful.
Ere I had finished this reply, my soul began to expand, to exalt,
with the strangest sense of freedom, of triumph I had ever felt.
It seemed as if an invisible bond had burst,
and that I had struggled out into unhoped for liberty.
Not without cause was this sentiment. Mrs. Reid looked frightened.
Her work had slipped from her knee. She was lifting up her hands,
rocking herself to and fro, and even twisting her face as if she would cry.
Jane, you are under a mistake. What is the matter with you? Why do you tremble so violently?
Would you like to drink some water? No, Mrs. Reid.
Is there anything else you wish for, Jane? I assure you I desire to be your friend.
Not you. You told Mr. Brocklehurst I had a bad character, a deceitful disposition,
and I'll let everybody at Lowood know what you are and what you have done.
Jane, you don't understand these things. Children must be corrected for their faults.
Deceit is not my fault, I cried out in a savage high voice.
But you are passionate, Jane. That you must allow.
Now return to the nursery. There's a deer. And lie down a little.
I am not your dear. I cannot lie down.
Send me to school soon, Mrs. Reid, for I hate to live here.
I will indeed send her to school soon, murmured Mrs. Reid, sort of voce.
And gathering up her work, she abruptly quitted the apartment.
I was left there alone, winner of the field.
It was the hardest battle I had fought, and the first victory I had gained.
I stood a while on the rug, where Mr. Brocklehurst had stood, and I enjoyed my conqueror's solitude.
First I smiled to myself and felt elated, but this fierce pleasure subsided in me as fast as
did the accelerated throb of my pulses. A child cannot quarrel with its elders as I had done,
cannot give its furious feelings uncontrolled play as I had given mine,
without experiencing afterwards the pang of remorse and the chill of reaction.
A ridge of lighted heath, alive, glancing, devouring,
would have been a meat emblem of my mind when I accused and menaced Mrs. Reid.
The same ridge, black and blasted after the flames are dead,
would have represented as meatly my subsequent condition,
when a half-hour's silence and reflection had shown me the madness of my conduct,
and the dreariness of my hatred and hating position.
Something of vengeance I had tasted for the first time,
as aromatic wine it seemed on swallowing, warm and racy.
Its after-flavour, metallic and corroding, gave me a sensation as if I had been poisoned.
Willingly would I now have gone and asked Mrs. Reid's pardon,
but I knew, partly from experience and partly from instinct,
that was the way to make her repulse me with double scorn,
thereby re-exciting every turbulent impulse of my nature.
I would feign exercise some better faculty than that of fierce speaking,
feign fine nourishment for some less fiendish feeling than that of sombre indignation.
I took a book, some Arabian tales, I sat down in an endeavour to read.
I could make no sense of the subject.
My own thoughts swam always between me and the page I had usually found fascinating.
I opened the glass door in the breakfast room.
The shrubbery was quite still.
The black frost rained, unbroken by sun or breeze through the grounds.
I covered my head and arms with the skirt of my frock,
and went out to walk in a part of the plantation which was quite sequestered.
But I found no pleasure in the silent trees,
the falling fur cones, the congealed relics of autumn,
russet leaves swept by past winds and heaps and now stiffened together.
I leaned against a gate and looked into an empty field where no sheep were feeding,
where the short grass was nipped and blanched.
It was a very grey day, a most opaque sky.
Onding on snow, canopied all,
thence flakes fell at intervals which settled on the hard plain and on the hoary lee without melting.
I stood, a wretched child enough,
whispering to myself over and over again,
What shall I do? What shall I do?
All at once I heard a clear voice call,
Miss Jane, where are you? Come to lunch.
It was Bessie I knew well enough, but I did not stir.
Her light step came tripping down the path.
You naughty little thing, she said, why don't you come when you're called?
Bessie's presence, compared with the thoughts over which I had been brooding,
seemed cheerful, even though as usual she was somewhat cross.
The fact is, after my conflict with and victory over Mrs. Reid,
I was not disposed to care much for the nursery maid's transitory anger,
and I was disposed to bask in her youthful lightness of heart.
I just put my two arms round her and said, Come Bessie, don't scold.
The action was more frank and fearless than any I was habituated to indulge in.
Somehow it pleased her.
You're a strange little child, Miss Jane, she said, as she looked down at me,
a little roving solitary thing, and you're going to school, I suppose.
I nodded.
And won't you be sorry to leave poor Bessie?
What does Bessie care for me? She's always scolding me.
Because you're such a queer, frightened, shy little thing, you should be bolder.
What, to get more knocks?
Nonsense. But you are rather put upon, that's certain.
My mother said when she came down to see me last week,
she would not like a little one of her own to be in your place.
Now come in, I've got some good news for you.
I don't think you have, Bessie.
Child, what do you mean? What sorrowful eyes you fix on me.
Well, but Misses and the young ladies and Master John are going out to tea this afternoon,
and you shall have tea with me.
I'll ask Cook to bake you a little cake,
and then you shall help me to look over your drawers, for I am soon to pack your trunk.
Misses intends you to leave Gateshead in a day or two,
and you shall choose what toys you like to take with you.
Bessie, you must promise not to scold me any more till I go.
Well, I will. But mind you're a very good girl, and don't be afraid of me.
Don't start when I chance to speak rather sharply, it's so provoking.
I don't think I shall ever be afraid of you again, Bessie, because I've gotten used to you,
and I shall soon have another set of people to dread.
If you dread them, they'll dislike you.
As you do, Bessie, I doubt dislike you, Miss.
I believe I'm funner of you than of all the others.
You don't show it, you sharp little thing.
You've got quite a new way of talking.
What makes you so venturesome and hardy?
Well, I shall soon be away from you, and besides,
I was going to say something about what had passed between me and Mrs. Reed,
but on second thoughts I considered it better to remain silent on that head.
And so you're glad to leave me?
Not at all, Bessie, indeed. Just now I'm rather sorry.
Just now? And rather? How coolly my little lady says it.
And I say now, if I were to ask you for a kiss, you wouldn't give it me.
You'd say you'd rather not.
I'll kiss you and welcome. Bed your head down.
Bessie stooped. We mutually embraced, and I followed her into the house quite comforted.
That afternoon lapsed in peace and harmony, and in the evening Bessie told me some of her
most enchanting stories, and sang me some of her sweetest songs.
Even for me, life had its gleams of sunshine.
End of chapter 4